(Ingredients)
Heavy cream and whole milk – They create the rich, creamy base. I don’t recommend substituting reduced fat or skim milk for the whole milk. Whole milk’s higher fat content ensures that this ice cream comes out creamy, not icy.
Unsweetened cocoa powder and chopped dark chocolate – Yes, there are TWO kinds of chocolate in this recipe! Both contribute to its deep chocolate flavor. The chopped chocolate also gives it a denser, creamier texture, which I love. Seek out a high-quality bar with 70% to 85% cacao. Tip: You can use any unsweetened cocoa powder in this recipe, but Dutch-process cocoa powder will give it an especially rich chocolate flavor.
Sugar – For sweetness. Natural cane sugar and fine granulated sugar both work well here.
Vanilla extract – For warm depth of flavor.
Sea salt – To make the chocolate flavor pop!

(Instructions)
(1st, you’ll simmer) the cream with the sugar, cocoa powder, and salt. This will fully incorporate the sugar and cocoa powder with the cream, giving the ice cream a smooth texture.

Then, you’ll remove the cream mixture from the heat and stir in the chopped chocolate. Whisk until it melts into the cream and the mixture is smooth, then whisk in the milk and vanilla.

Why add these ingredients after simmering? If you added them earlier, along with the cream, the chocolate could split, giving the ice cream a grainy texture.
Next, chill the ice cream mixture. Transfer it to a heatproof bowl and allow to cool slightly. Then, cover and chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours or overnight.

(2nd Churn the ice cream)
When you’re ready to churn the ice cream, remove the chilled chocolate mixture from the fridge.

FYI: A skin might have formed on top. That’s ok! Give the mixture a good whisk, and the skin should incorporate back into it.
Churn the chocolate mixture in your ice cream maker according to the manufacturer’s instructions. I use the KitchenAid stand mixer ice cream maker attachment (it’s the best!), and I typically churn the ice cream for 20 to 30 minutes. Generally, the longer you chill the chocolate mixture in the fridge, the less time you need to churn it.

(3rd Freeze)
You can eat the ice cream right after churning, but know that it will have a fairly soft texture. For a firmer, scoopable texture, transfer it to an airtight container and freeze for 2 hours or longer.

Chocolate ice cream recipe

How to Store
This homemade chocolate ice cream keeps well in an airtight container in the freezer for up to 1 month.

It might be too firm to scoop directly from the freezer. Let it sit at room temperature for a few minutes to soften, or let it soften more gradually in the fridge. I also find that dipping my ice cream scoop in warm water helps it scoop more easily.

Enjoy plain or topped with chocolate shavings, sprinkles, whipped cream, strawberries…anything you like!
